There is a new security bug in the news called "Shellshock". Everyone seems a bit panicked,
but it turns out that no tech journalist tries to explain it
to the public. This is quite logical as it is quite complicated.
I will try.
There was once a command prompt.
The command prompt is a way to give a computer commands via text instead of clicking
or tap. You can see it as a conversation with your computer.
So I can type commands such as "move this file here", "shows which programs are active
are "or" change my password "and then the computer will do this. Of course it is very explicit
and there are a number of safeguards built in, but remember that the command
for "removing everything on the computer - yes, I'm sure"
but eight characters long.
And it is not just a question-and-answer thing. You can write programs with this. You can
use variables. For example, you could say: "remember: if I type X later, I mean
this long and complicated thing that I put in quotes because I do not
a hundred times want to re-type, okay? ", then it says" okay "and then you can later
X types.
That is where the bug is! Everything between the quotation marks on the screen should be treated
as a simple text and never, but never, as an assignment. That way you can do things
to send to the outside world without being afraid that it will cause damage. It will simply be treated as text.
But in one of the most popular command-line interfaces available, "Bash", if you have one
certain string at the beginning of a variable move, then Bash does not know it anymore and it will be the string
treat as an assignment.
Okay, that's a bug, but if you need someone to type it in physically, then
that is not exactly the best exploit in the world.
The problem is: nobody needs to type it in physically.
Because the command prompt is also a way for different programs to talk to each other.
Unix, the operating system that runs on a lot of modern servers,
is based on the idea that - instead of continuously rewriting code - that programs
other, simpler programs can ask. If you are in a file
To search for words, you do not have to write a code for that, because that has already been done for you and
probably better. Your program silently uses the command prompt in the background and
the output is returned, silently in the background. Never appears on the screen, never
with text, but it is all treated with the same shell, normally Bash.
Do you see where I want to go? Because the program that you send web pages will
sometimes use the Bash command prompt to talk to other small programs. Badly written
webapps - probably written in PHP, my favorite - will be the
sometimes use command prompt and that is a bad way, but they do that. And "embedded systems", things like
routers or smart-home devices ... they may use Bash
because they rely on safety. But as the input of the world, the things of random
Internet users that they send to you, if that is maliciously made with
that special string ... Oh jee. Every person on the internet would suddenly
be able to run dangerous jobs on your web servers. Then you have
"Remote Code Execution". Or you are owned. Probably with a zero, because it is the internet. You can
there are very likely servers crashing, you can also do much more damage. If
this video is online, I would not be surprised if someone had a smart,
self-duplicating attack has made the world go round and copy itself.
And the very bad news: that bug was, unnoticed, in Bash for about 25 years.
So a lot has to be patched.
That is how it works. The conclusion for the end user? Make sure your computer
and all your servers are up-to-date with patches and security updates. There is not much that you can do
do against these bugs, but you can stay up-to-date. And the people who write code
that is executed deeply, or code that can be affected by this,
the only thing I can say is: I hope you have safety tips
not from a guy on YouTube.
Translation / Translation: (an anonymous YouTuber)